GRD-76588 feat: Dynamo DB plugin to be able to work using s3 (#396)
IBM/universal-connectors: filter-plugin/logstash-filter-dynamodb-guardium/README.md

# Dynamodb-Guardium Logstash filter plug-in

### Meet DynamoDB
* Environment: AWS
* Supported Guardium versions:
	* Guardium Data Protection: 11.4 and above
      * Supported inputs:

>         * S3 (pull)

Reviewer: S3 input plugin is not supported in GI yet. Need to be clear that only Cloudwatch and SQS are relevant for GI

>         * S3 (pull)

Reviewer: S3 input plugin is not supported in GI yet. Need to be clear that only Cloudwatch and SQS are relevant for GI

>         * ClouedWatch (pull)

Reviewer: CloudWatch

# Amazon DynamoDB-Guardium Logstash filter plug-in

> ### Meet DynamoDB

Author: I will write it for Dynamo but @RefaelAdi may put the information about the GI.

This is a [Logstash](https://github.com/elastic/logstash) filter plug-in for the universal connector that is featured in IBM Security Guardium. It parses events and messages from the Amazon DynamoDB audit log into a [Guardium record](https://github.com/IBM/universal-connectors/blob/main/common/src/main/java/com/ibm/guardium/universalconnector/commons/structures/Record.java) instance (which is a standard structure made out of several parts). The information is then sent over to Guardium. Guardium records include the accessor (the person who tried to access the data), the session, data, and exceptions. If there are no errors, the data contains details about the query "construct". The construct details the main action (verb) and collections (objects) involved.

The plug-in is free and open-source (Apache 2.0). It can be used as a starting point to develop additional filter plug-ins for Guardium universal connector.

## 1. Configuring Amazon DynamoDB

> In the AWS web interface, configure the service for Dynamodb.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the AWS web interface, configure the service for DynamoDB.
```

### Procedure

> 1. Go to https://console.aws.amazon.com/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Go to https://console.aws.amazon.com/.
```

> 2. Click `Services` in the top left menu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Click **Services**.
```

> 3. Underneath `All services`, click on `Database`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Go to **All services** >  **Database**.
```

> 4. On the right panel, click `DynamoDB`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Click **DynamoDB**.
```

> 5. At the top right, click on the dropdown menu and select your region.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Click the drop-down menu and select your region.
```

> 6. Click the orange `Create Table` button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Click **Create Table**.
```

7. Enter a table name.
8. Enter a partition key.

> 9. Scroll down and click the orange `Create table` button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
9. Scroll down and click **Create table**.
```

## 2. Enabling audit logs 

> There are different ways for auditing and logging. We will use CloudTrail for this example since it supports all required parameters. The below events are supported for auditing in AWS

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are different ways to audit and log events. We will use CloudTrail for this example since it supports all required parameters. The following events are supported for auditing in AWS:
```

### Procedure

> 1. Click Services in the top left menu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click **Services**.
```

> 2. Underneath `All services`, click on `Management & Governance`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Go to **All services** > **Management & Governance**.
```

> 3. On the right panel, click `Cloud Trail`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Click **Cloud Trail**.
```

> 4. Click `Create trail` button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Click **Create trail**.
```

> 5. Provide a trail name under `Trail name`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Provide a trail name in the **Trail name** field.
```

> 6. Under `Storage location`, verify "Create new S3 bucket" is selected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. For **Storage location**, verify that **Create new S3 bucket** is selected.
```

> 7. Under `Log file SSE-KMS encryption`, uncheck the Enabled box.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. In **Log file SSE-KMS encryption**, uncheck **Enabled**.
```

> 8. If the logs are to be monitored through CloudWatch, then forward them to Cloudwatch using steps 9 to 13. (If not, skip those steps).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
8. If the logs are to be monitored through CloudWatch, then forward them to CloudWatch using steps 9 to 13. (If not, skip those steps).
```

> 9. Under **CloudWatch Logs**, check the **Enabled** box.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
9. In **CloudWatch Logs**, check **Enabled**.
```

10. Verify **New** is selected for **Log group**.
11. Under **Log group name**, provide a new log group name.
12. Verify **New** is selected for **IAM Role**.
13. For **Role name**, provide a new role name.
14. Click **Next**.
15. For **Event type**, select **Management events** and **Data events**.
16. Verify that **Read** and **Write** are selected for **API Activity**.
17. In the **Data Events** section, click **Switch to basic event selectors**.
18. Click **Continue** to confirm.
19. Click **Add data event type**.
20. Click **Data event source** and select **DynamoDB**.
21. Click **NEXT**.
22. Verify that all parameters shown are correct.
23. Click **Create trail**.

## 3. Viewing the logs on CloudWatch

### Procedure

> 1. Click the Service drop down.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click the Service drop-down.
```

> 2. On right `Recently visited` panel, click on CloudWatch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. In the **Recently visited** panel, click **CloudWatch**.
```

> 3. On the left panel, click on Logs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Click **Logs** > **Log groups**.
```

> 4. Click on `Log groups` under Logs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

> 5. In the search box, enter the name of the log group created in the previous STEP 9.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. In the search box, enter the name of the log group created previously in step 9.
```

> 6. Click on the log group that appeared from the search.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Click on the log group that appears from the search.
```

> 7. All logs will appear under log streams in the format: <account_id>_CloudTrail_<region>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. All logs appear under log streams in this format: <account_id>_CloudTrail_<region>
```

> ## 4. Exporting Cloudwatch Logs to SQS using lambda function

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## 4. Exporting CloudWatch logs to SQS using the lambda function
```

In order to achieve load balancing of audit logs between different collectors, the audit logs must be exported from

> Cloudwatch to SQS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CloudWatch to SQS.
```

### Creating the SQS queue

> The SQS created in these steps will contain the messages to be filled up by the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The SQS created in these steps contain the messages to be filled up by the
```

> lambda function (created in next section) in the queue by reading the CloudWatch logs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
lambda function (created in the next section) in the queue by reading the CloudWatch logs.
```

> The messages inside the SQS will contain content from CloudWatch logs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The messages inside the SQS contain content from CloudWatch logs.
```

#### Procedure

> 1. Go to https://console.aws.amazon.com/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Go to https://console.aws.amazon.com/.
```

> 2. Click **Services**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Click **Services**.
```

> 3. Search for SQS and click on **Simple Queue Services**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Search for SQS and click **Simple Queue Services**.
```

4. Click **Create Queue**.
5. Select the type as **Standard**.

> 6. Enter the name for the queue

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Enter the name for the queue.
```

> 7. Keep the rest of the default settings

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. Keep the rest of the default settings.
```

### Creating a policy for the relevant IAM User
Perform the below steps for the IAM user who is accessing the SQS logs in Guardium:
#### Procedure

> 1. Go to https://console.aws.amazon.com/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Go to https://console.aws.amazon.com/.
```

2. Go to **IAM service** > **Policies** > **Create Policy**.
3. Select **service as SQS**.
4. Check the following checkboxes:  **ListQueues**, **DeleteMessage**, **DeleteMessageBatch**, **GetQueueAttributes**,
   **GetQueueUrl**, **ReceiveMessage**, **ChangeMessageVisibility**, **ChangeMessageVisibilityBatch**.

> 5. In the resources, specify the ARN of the queue created in the above step.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. In the resources, specify the ARN of the queue created in the previous step.
```

6. Click **Review policy** and specify the policy name.
7. Click **Create policy**.

> 8. Assign the policy to the user

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
8. Assign the policy to the user:
```

    1. Log in to the IAM console as an IAM user (https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/).
    2. Go to **Users** on the console and select the relevant IAM user to whom you want to give permissions.
       Click the **username**.
    3. In the **Permissions tab**, click **Add permissions**.
    4. Click **Attach existing policies directly**.
    5. Search for the policy created and check the checkbox next to it.

>     6. Click **Next: Review**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    6. Click **Next: Review**.
```

>     7. Click **Add permissions**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    7. Click **Add permissions**.
```

> ### Creating the Lambda function

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Creating the lambda function
```

> The Lambda function will read the CloudWatch Logs and send the events into the SQS queue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The lambda function will read the CloudWatch logs and send the events into the SQS queue.
```

> Follow the steps below to configure the Lambda function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Follow the steps in the next section to configure the lambda function.
```

> #### Creating IAM Role

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Creating an IAM Role
```

> Create the IAM role that will be used in the Lambda function setup. The AWS Lambda service will require permission to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create the IAM role that will be used in the lambda function setup. The AWS Lambda service will require permission to
```

log events and write to the SQS created. Create the IAM Role **Export-Dynamo-CloudWatch-to-SQS-Lambda** with
"AmazonSQSFullAccess", "CloudWatchLogsFullAccess", and "CloudWatchEventsFullAccess" policies.

__*Procedure*__

> 1. Go to https://console.aws.amazon.com/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Go to https://console.aws.amazon.com/.
```

> 2. Go to **IAM** -> **Roles**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Go to **IAM** > **Roles**.
```

> 3. Click **Create Role**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Click **Create Role**.
```

> 4. Under use case select **Lambda** and click **Next**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. In **use case**, select **Lambda** and click **Next**.
```

> 5. Search for **AmazonSQSFullAccess** and select it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Search for **AmazonSQSFullAccess** and select it.
```

> 6. Search for **CloudWatchLogsFullAccess** and select it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Search for **CloudWatchLogsFullAccess** and select it.
```

> 7. Search for **CloudWatchEventsFullAccess** and select it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. Search for **CloudWatchEventsFullAccess** and select it.
```

> 8. Set the Role Name: e.g., "Export-Dynamo-CloudWatch-to-SQS-Lambda" and click **Create role**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
8. Set the role name: e.g., "Export-Dynamo-CloudWatch-to-SQS-Lambda" and click **Create role**.
```

#### Create the lambda function
__*Procedure*__

> 1. Go to https://console.aws.amazon.com/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Go to https://console.aws.amazon.com/.
```

2. Go to **Services**. Search for **lambda function**.

> 3. Click **Functions**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Click **Functions**.
```

> 4. Click **Create Function**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Click **Create Function**.
```

> 5. Keep **Author for Scratch** selected

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Keep **Author for Scratch** selected.
```

6. Set a function name e.g., Export-Dynamo-CloudWatch-Logs-To-SQS.
7. Under **Runtime**, select **Python 3.x**.
8. Under **Permissions**, select **Use an existing role** and select the IAM role that you created in
   the previous step (Export-Dynamo-CloudWatch-Logs-To-SQS).
9. Click **Create function** and navigate to **Code view**.
10. Add the function code from the file [lambda.py](DynamodbOverSQSPackage/lambda.py).
11. Click **Configuration** > **Environment Variables**.
12. Create 2 variables:
    1. `Key = GROUP_NAME value = <value>` e.g., `uc-dynamo-plugin-cloudwatch-group`
    2. `Key = QUEUE_NAME value = <value>` e.g., `https://sqs.ap-south-1.amazonaws.com/346824951129/np-dynamo-sqs`
13. Save the function.
14. Click **Deploy**.

#### Automating the lambda function

> The Lambda will be called by a scheduler configured inside event rules in CloudWatch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The lambda is called by a scheduler configured inside event rules in CloudWatch.
```

**_Procedure_**
1. Go to the CloudWatch dashboard.
2. Go to **Events** > **Rules**.
3. Click **Create Rule**.

> 4. Enter the name for the rule e.g., cloudwatchToSqs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Enter the name for the rule e.g., cloudwatchToSqs.
```

5. Under **Rule Type**, select **Schedule**.
6. Define the schedule. In **schedule pattern**, select a schedule that runs at a regular rate,
   such as every 10 minutes.
7. Enter the rate expression, meaning the rate at which the function should execute.
   This value must match the time specified in the lambda function code that calculates the time delta.
   (If the function code it is set to 2 minutes, set the rate to 2 minutes unless changed in the code). Click **Next**.
8. Select **Target1**. Select the **Target Type** as **AWS Service**.
9. Select **Target** as **Lambda Function**.

> 10. Select the lambda function created in the above step. e.g., Export-Dynamo-CloudWatch-Logs-To-SQS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
10. Select the lambda function created in the previous step. e.g., Export-Dynamo-CloudWatch-Logs-To-SQS.
```

11. Add the tag if needed.

> 12. Click Create Rule.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
12. Click **Create Rule**.
```

#### Note

> Before making any changes to the lambda function code, first disable the above rule.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before making any changes to the lambda function code, first disable the rule discussed previously.
```

Deploy the change and then re-enable the rule.

### Limitations

> 1. The Dynamo DB plug-in does not support IPV6.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. The DynamoDB plug-in does not support IPV6.
```

2. You may need to disable management events in order to avoid heavy traffic and data loss in Guardium. Disabling management events disables logging of the following events: 
CreateTable, DeleteTable, ListTable, UpdateTable, DescribeTable events.

> ## 4. Configuring the Dynamodb filters in Guardium

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## 4. Configuring the DynamoDB filters in Guardium
```

1. Log in to the Guardium Collector's APIs.
2. Issue these commands:
```
grdapi add_domain_to_universal_connector_allowed_domains domain=amazonaws.com
grdapi add_domain_to_universal_connector_allowed_domains domain=amazon.com
```

#### Before you begin

> • You must have LFD policy enabled on the collector. The detailed steps can be found in step 4 on [this page](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/guardium/11.4?topic=dpi-installing-testing-filter-input-plug-in-staging-guardium-system).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
• Configure the policies you require. See ([policies](/docs/#policies)) for more information.

```

• You must have permission for the S-Tap Management role. The admin user includes this role by default.

> • Download the [cloudtrail_codec_plugin.zip](DynamodbOverCloudtrailPackage/DynamoDB/cloudtrail_codec_plugin.zip) plug-in, if the logs are to be pulled directly from CloudTrail.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
• Download the [cloudtrail_codec_plugin.zip](DynamodbOverCloudtrailPackage/DynamoDB/cloudtrail_codec_plugin.zip) plug-in, if the logs are to be pulled directly from CloudTrail. (Do not unzip the offline-package file throughout the procedure). This step is not necessary for Guardium Data Protection v12.0 and later.

```

> • Download the [logstash-filter-dynamodb_guardium_plugin_filter.zip plug-in.](./logstash-filter-dynamodb_guardium_plugin_filter.zip)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
• Download the [logstash-filter-dynamodb_guardium_plugin_filter.zip plug-in](./logstash-filter-dynamodb_guardium_plugin_filter.zip). (Do not unzip the offline-package file throughout the procedure). This step is not necessary for Guardium Data Protection v12.0 and later.

```

Reviewer 2: Please work off the latest updated plug-ins from our Github site when creating new readmes. Many edits and additions have been made over time.

### Procedure
1. On the collector, go to **Setup** > **Tools and Views** > **Configure Universal Connector**.

> 2. Enable the connector if it is already disabled, before proceeding to upload the UC.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Enable the connector if it is disabled.
```

3. Click **Upload File**,
    * If the audit logs are to be fetched from CloudWatch directly, select the
      [logstash-filter-dynamodb_guardium_plugin_filter.zip](./DynamodbOverCloudwatchPackage/DynamoDB/logstash-filter-dynamodb_guardium_plugin_filter.zip)

>       plug-in. After it is uploaded, click **OK**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      plug-in. After it is uploaded, click **OK**. This step is not necessary for Guardium Data Protection v12.0 and later.

```

    * If the audit logs are to be fetched from SQS, select the
      [logstash-filter-dynamodb_guardium_plugin_filter.zip](./DynamodbOverSQSPackage/DynamoDB/logstash-filter-dynamodb_guardium_plugin_filter.zip)

>       plug-in. After it is uploaded, click **OK**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      plug-in. After it is uploaded, click **OK**. This step is not necessary for Guardium Data Protection v12.0 and later.

```

	* If the audit logs are to be fetched from CloudTrail, select the
		1.  [cloudtrail_codec_plugin.zip](./DynamodbOverCloudtrailPackage/DynamoDB/cloudtrail_codec_plugin.zip)

>       plug-in. After it is uploaded, click **OK**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      plug-in. After it is uploaded, click **OK**. This step is not necessary for Guardium Data Protection v12.0 and later.

```

		2.  [logstash-filter-dynamodb_guardium_plugin_filter.zip](DynamodbOverCloudtrailPackage/DynamoDB/dynamodb-offline-plugins-7.5.2.zip)

>       plug-in. After it is uploaded, click **OK**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      plug-in. After it is uploaded, click **OK**. This step is not necessary for Guardium Data Protection v12.0 and later.

```

7. If the audit logs are to be fetched from CloudWatch, use the details from the [dynamodbCloudwatch.conf](DynamodbOverCloudwatchPackage/DynamoDB/dynamodbCloudwatch.conf)
   file. But if the audit logs are to be fetched from SQS, use the details
   from the [dynamodbOverSqs.conf](DynamodbOverSQSPackage/DynamoDB/dynamodbOverSqs.conf) file. If the audit logs are to be fetched from CloudTrail, use the details from the [dynamodbCloudtrail.conf](DynamodbOverCloudtrailPackage/DynamoDB/dynamodbCloudtrail.conf) file. Update the filter section to add the details
   from the corresponding file's input part, omitting the keyword "filter{" at the beginning and its corresponding "}"
   at the end.
8. The "type" fields should match in input and filter configuration sections. This field should be unique for every individual connector added.
9. Click **Save**. Guardium validates the new connector, and enables the universal connector if it was
   disabled. After it is validated, it appears in the Configure Universal Connector page.

> ## Configuring the dynamodb filters in Guardium Insights

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Configuring the DynamoDB filters in Guardium Insights
```
